All right welcome back my students.
So it's tough for us to install a composer so that we can create a new Larabee project.
Things are about to get really exciting.
All right so I want you to keep the energy I want you to keep you know thinking that this is going to
benefit you so much.
You're going to learn so much in this course that you are going to be thanking me for the rest of your
life.
Right.
But anyway let's get going.
So composer is composer for those of you that don't know well composer he's other pendency manager.
Do we know that right.
Edlund can you tell us something else.
Yes I can.
Composer will allow us to download BHB pre-made code from the Internet code that has been written from
for us from people that have nothing else to do a book called all day.
These people don't have a life.
I don't understand it but believe it they just drink a lot of coffee and they just called all day and
they put cold out there so we can use it.
I mean what's wrong with these people right for free.
Come on.
Well that's what it is.
So if you want to find out where to download this pre-made call for BHB.
I'm going to tell you right now package out there we go my google my best friend let's click on it and
now we go to this Web site.
This is up BHB package a repository meaning that people come here and they just drop in call that they
that took months for them to write so we can use it for free.
I know that sounds crazy but it is true.
Right.
They just feel they want to help humankind.
You know why not.
Right.
So let's say for example I want to create this out indication system and I don't want to write it from
scratch.
What can I do.
Well we can come in packages and we can say our dainty cation t shirt.
All right.
So if I come here I can see that this has a major that's included here.
When I type in you get this result I can see that it says a basic user authentication class for Logan
.
Look at that somebody wrote something that I can use right out of the box.
I click on it and then I look at everything that he has to offer.
And I read a.
Whom I can use is really cool stuff how do I use it.
And you start reading you start reading and you say oh man this thing has no documentation of or what
he's done this sucks.
You go back and you say I want a logging system.
You click on this and now you go back here and then you start seeing that.
OK.
Good.
OK I like it.
And then you say ok cool.
This has the documentation that I can use.
All right.
Or we have an example application.
Cool.
I want this.
You go grab the command line or you use typesetting composer require in whatever application you are
creating.
So let's say you bring HD docs and you are using.
And then you have a let's say for example a CMOS folder where you have your application there and I
see a mess for you you can typing compose or require this anywhere require that specific plug in or
code in your project and then you will go ahead and require it require that file that I create and then
you can start using its methods and properties and all of a sudden you have this logging system already
created for you that you can use whenever you want.
That's what composure allow us to do.
Right.
So now without further ado let's actually download a composer really simple click on download and now
tell us to use ph be to download.
Most Macs out there already have BHP being installed.
If you don't have a you can use it with curls.
You can look it up on line and say How can I download composer if I don't have BHB for all reason.
If you don't have it it's going to tell us to use it is going to give you an advice and tell you a listen
you can use Kerl to do that.
But most Macs have BHP So we're going to use that when I'd say command C to copy that and let's go to
termino phase that anywhere because we're going to be reading this file from here I enter it's going
to take a little bit like a couple of seconds and that's first lines done.
So we download the installer to the current directory and we come here and we verify the installer which
can also cross check here.
But let's use download verify the installer.
All right.
Copy this comeback to enter and now installer is verify we're good to go there.
Now let's run it.
Let's say BHB composer is pasted in there.
Antar.
And as you can see he's downloading it and voila.
All right so now we have this filed called composer that far end users and the user name and that's
where it's located.
As a matter of fact we are there now.
If I type in L as for listing that I rectories we can see that file right here.
We also have this set up that we need to remove.
So if you go back you can see that we are we can delete that file right.
We can only link it.
Let's go back and this and that and now type less.
We don't have that composers set up.
We have only composer that far.
So now to verify that this has been stold we type in THP composer died at the age they are enter.
And now if you get this retro composer and all of these options your composer is installed.
Now the problem is that if you want to use a composer you need to be on this file.
You need to have this composer that far will be in this directory all the time.
We don't want to do that.
We don't want to be on this directory all the time on users will we're.
What we need to do is set up a global access to these files so we can tap in composer anywhere.
All right we don't have to type in BHB composer whatever that far.
Right.
All right.
So how do we do that what are we going to do that by creating a bash profile and this bash profile is
going to be very useful for us.
So I want you to hang with me there.
So now we know that we say our last two listed directories are there are the files and we can say as
a hi fi L.A. to actually get that hit in system files so we can see them.
All right so that's a flag high thing layer right.
All right.
So let's create this bash underscore profile file.
So we're going to do this like this.
Let's say nano dot Bash on the score profile Arayan has to be written exactly like this.
And then enter.
All right.
So now here we're going to write some code that is going to allow us to use composer everywhere.
So export.
All right.
And then all capital their path equals symbol and then quotes two quotes all semi-colon that we do in
PH We don't worry about that.
And now in between here we're going to say all right.
I want you to export composer from the root directory.
Is there a way forward slash dot.
And then you type in composer and then vendor and then bin and then Kallen and then dollar symbol and
then path or capital again.
All right so whatever path we want in whatever path we are.
All right so once you do that you should have composer available.
Now you need to save this file for this to work.
All right so control X and then Y enter.
All right.
Now you can refresh this by saying source.
And then the name of the file that the hash profile and then enter.
So now you refreshed it.
All right.
Now this bash profile file is super useful because we can write aliases for our command.
So we have this vague command like this.
And we you know instead of typing this all the time we can write a shortcut.
We can say okay desk in desk would take us to the desktop instead of s.c the you know users and the
name or the user and then they're stopping all of this instead of doing that.
We can just type in desk and we take us there.
Let me show you how that's done because that's very useful and I use it all the time.
I think this information is going to be very very good for you.
So let's go back to nano.
Well in nano by the way is a native editor Araya I know it sounds it sounds difficult to pronounce.
I'm going to show you another editor that he has.
We can say venta V.
I m enter and this is a different editor right.
And now to get out of here very simple scape key.
And then the symbol the colon.
So you hit the scape and then colon and then the cue and then enter India is going to take you out of
there.
Right.
That's how you get out of the Vendy tour.
I don't like to use a vintage as much but I use a once in a while I like to use nano.
All right.
So anyway nano Let's go back to bash profil enter.
All right we only have one line of code here.
Let's create another one.
All right.
So let's make an alias alias and I'll show you right now how simple this is Alias and then call it desk
for desktop equal to quotes.
And then here we're going to type in.
Where did the command line that the command to go to desktop because I won this key word desk to take
me to desktop every time I typed it right.
So I'm going to say see the you're going to go to users then you're going to go to the user name and
my case is coding faculty.
Oops.
Faculty.
All right.
And Dand desktop capital D.
Desk top.
All right so every time I type in desk you're going to take me there.
That's what I wonder.
Non-ABS so control X ups control ads for to save.
And so I'm going to hit Y and it says file name to write bash for file enter.
Now if for some reason you have issues saving those files you need to become a super user in the way
you do that is by typing in superuser do right so Su's deal and then Neno that bash Profar enter and
is going to ask you for password you type it in and then enter.
And now you are looking at this file as a super user sometimes that would not let you edit the file
.
All right.
And then you can do whatever and then click control.
That's if you this something would ask you to save it around because you're a super user it would allow
you to do that and some files were asked you you know for the super user permission but anyway.
Now if you want to have super user permission all the time all you have to do is say sudo su.
And that's going to convert you to a super use all the time so you don't have to type in sudo every
time.
All right.
We don't want to do that we want to make sure that we type sudo because sometimes you can mess things
up in the operating system by just being a super user all the time you want to be able to to be Sudol
so that way when you're doing some type of crazy edit in the system we ask you Are you sure you want
to do that.
But if you are a super user I wouldn't ask you for that right.
So now in order for this to work because right now we would try to do this desk and enter is going to
tell us that command is now found.
That's because we need to refresh the file.
We need to refresh that profile.
All right.
So we're going to say a source the bash profile enter and now we refreshed it.
And now if we Taiping desk and then as you can see we are in desktop already so we can say less and
you can see that we have the docs and we have some tatts and some screen shot there and desktop aof
we type in p w d.
You can see that we are in desktop users courting faculty desktop so it's working right now I don't
want to have to refresh bash all the time.
I hate refresh that why don't we create an alias for that right.
So and another thing is that we have to go to route again.
So see the till.
If we are rude Let's go to the file and nano dot bash profile.
Remember if it doesn't work for you typing sudo.
All right.
So enter let's do an alias for that for refreshing.
So alias refresh.
So I'm going to say refresh reave Bash.
All right because I want to refresh on other files later.
So now we say sors and then here what we need to do is put the to that.
All right.
And then the name of the file.
BASH profile arises always going to refresh that.
BASH no matter where we are because it's going to go straight there.
All right.
Now control Etz and yes and Whyfor Yes Antar and now we can say source and this is the last time we
need to write this bash profile.
So now we can just say refresh the bash and we refresh our profile abash profile file.
All right.
I know these might be a little lot to take in right now but just know that you were good to go.
All right so now let's go to a bash profile real quick and let's go in there and let's do something
else.
So now we have this alias for we are exporting this.
And you can find more information about that in their Lavell Web site.
So let's go to Lavell real quick and documentation and you can see that he's telling us to make sure
that is composed of bin directory.
All right.
Is in the path and we have that in the path.
So now you can come in.
Let's do something else before we check to see if this works.
I going to typing an alias to go to bash all the time.
So if I type in Bash I want to go there.
So see the till then that bash as a matter of fact I'm going to say Nan or their
cash profile.
All right.
And as a matter of fact and then open it up with permissions like this.
So I don't have a problem Suro national bash profile SoCal man.
And then I mean control it's.
And then why for years.
So now let's refresh the bash Antar.
All right.
Now we can say let's go to our desktop desk enter Let's check it real quick.
We are in desktop.
Let's go to bash and.
And now you can see that he takes a takes us straight there we don't even have to do anything else.
C'mon let's see how beautiful that is.
BASH enter.
All right.
We don't have to type in all that path in the file name because he's already done for us in his alias
.
So this is super useful.
All right.
So if you want to go to the docs all the time all you have to do is is age the dogs right.
We create an alias for this and then we say See the users.
They use your username and desktop.
All right.
Or actually this is applications for God since Ray and then zap the ducks array.
And that's going to take you there all that time.
Now control x to come in rooi fresh bash and then we say it's the dogs and the WD.
And as you can see we are seeing RHC dogs right there.
Alas beautiful.
Go ahead and keep playing around with it.
But before you go if we Taiping composer we can see that we have composer working for awls globally
.
All right.
If you can't get that to work let me know and I'll put it on the discussion we'll fix it.
But anyway thank you so much for watching this lecture.
Hopefully this will save you all.
You learn a lot on this lecture.
And this will save you a lot of time.
I'm pretty sure.
Thank you.
And I know this was wrong but it was worth it.
Take care and I'll see you in the next lectures.